Dsl1 2.5.0 (#1021)
nf-core/eager: docs/output.md

* You have an over-amplified library with many PCR duplicates. You should consider rebuilding the library to maximise data to cost ratio
* You have a low quality library made up of mappable sequencing artefacts that were able to pass filtering (e.g. adapters)

### Damage Calculation

#### Background

> DamageProfiler and mapDamage are tools which calculate a variety of standard 'aDNA' metrics from a BAM file. The primary plots here are the misincorporation and length distribution plots. Ancient DNA undergoes depurination and hydrolysis, causing fragmentation of molecules into gradually shorter fragments, and cytosine to thymine deamination damage, that occur on the subsequent single-stranded overhangs at the ends of molecules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DamageProfiler and mapDamage are tools that calculate a variety of standard 'aDNA' metrics from a BAM file. The primary plots here are the misincorporation and length distribution plots. Ancient DNA undergoes depurination and hydrolysis, causing fragmentation of molecules into gradually shorter fragments, and cytosine to thymine deamination damage, that occur on the subsequent single-stranded overhangs at the ends of molecules.
```

* If your library is **single-stranded**, you will expect to see only C to T misincorporations at both 5' and 3' ends of the fragments.
* We generally expect that the older the sample, or the less-ideal preservational environment (hot/wet) the greater the frequency of C to T/G to A.
* The curve will be not smooth then you have few reads informing the frequency calculation. Read counts of less than 500 are likely not reliable.
* If the `mapdamage_downsample` parameter was specified and mapDamage was used for damage calculation, the damage frequency for each base is based only on the specified number of reads.

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/output/damageprofiler/damageprofiler_deaminationpatterns.png" width="75%" height = "75%">
</p>

> > **NB:** An important difference to note compared to the mapDamage tool, which DamageProfiler is an exact-reimplementation of, is that the percent frequency on the Y axis is not fixed between 0 and 0.3, and will 'zoom' into small values the less damage there is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NB:** An important difference to note compared to the mapDamage tool, which DamageProfiler is otherwise an exact-re-implementation of, is that the percent frequency on the Y axis is not fixed between 0 and 0.3, and will 'zoom' into small values the less damage there is
```
